README.md, before:

# Welcome to LYME

LYME stands for **<u>L</u>ow Ke<u>y</u> <u>M</u>arkup <u>E</u>ditor** and guess what, it's simply that. LYME aims to stay in the background and provide you with a distraction-free interface for writing text in your favorite markup language. 

## Editor

### Blocks

The given text - or markup if you will - is split into blocks. A block is delimited by two line breaks. Think of it as a paragraph. You can click any block to start editing. **Just try it and click this text.** As soon as you leave a block the `onMarkupChange` callback is invoked.

### Renderers and Markup Languages

Renderers transform markup into HTML. What markup language you use is up to you. LYME ships with the following renderers (*Markdown Extra* is the default renderer):

Markup Language  | Library Dependencies                                                                                  | Constructor
---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------
Markdown         | `lib/showdown.min.js` ([Showdown](https://github.com/coreyti/showdown))                               | `$.fn.renderers.Showdown`
Markdown Extra   | `lib/js-markdown-extra.js` ([JS Markdown Extra](https://github.com/tanakahisateru/js-markdown-extra)) | `$.fn.renderers.JSMarkdownExtra`

But don't worry, you can override the `renderer` option with an object providing a `render(string markup) string` function and plug in your own renderer.

You can also overwrite the way you want to split blocks by providing a `split(string markup) string[]` function.

~~~
$('#editor').lyme({
    renderer : {
        render: function(markup) {
            var html = ...;
            return html;
        },
        split: function(markup) {
            var blocks = ...;
            return blocks;
        }
    }
});
~~~

### Hot Keys

If you're editing a block you can use the following hot keys to navigate the editor:

Key Combination                   | Effect
----------------------------------|---------------------------
`TAB`                             | Indents code by 4 spaces.
`CTRL + ALT + DOWN ARROW`         | Moves to the next block.
`CTRL + ALT + UP ARROW`           | Moves to the previous block.
`CTRL + ALT + BACKSPACE`          | Deletes the current block.
`CTRL + ALT + RETURN`             | Adds new block below the current block.
`CTRL + ALT + SHIFT + DOWN ARROW` | Places the current block after the next block.
`CTRL + ALT + SHIFT + UP ARROW`   | Places the current block before the previous block.
`ESCAPE`                          | Leaves the current block / exits the editor.

You can provide your own hot keys if you wish. Have a look at the `$.fn.lyme.hotKeys` object and the `hotKeys` option.

Some hot keys, like `TAB`, are configurable:

~~~
$.fn.lyme.hotKeys.tabbing.indentation = "\t"; // Use TAB
$.fn.lyme.hotKeys.tabbing.indentation = '  '; // Use two spaces
~~~


## Integration

Here is some sample code that initializes a LYME editor.

~~~
<html>
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="build/lyme.css">
</head>
<body>
    <div id="editor"></div>
    <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.9.1.min.js"></script>
    <script src="/lib/js-markdown-extra.js"></script>
    <script src="/build/jquery.lyme.min.js"></script>
    <script>
        $('#editor').lyme({
            markup: "# Hi there\n\nI am text!",
            onMarkupChange: function(markup, html) {
                console.log(markup, html);
            }
        });
    </script>
</body>
</html>
~~~

LYME provides a shortcut to read and write to a textarea element. Just provide the selected element as the `text` option and LYME will automatically setup a plugin to update the element whenever the markup changes.

~~~
$('#editor').lyme({
    markup: $('#textarea')
});
~~~

### Options

Name              | Type                 | Description
------------------|----------------------|-------------
`markup`          | String or `$` Object | The initial markup to use. If a selected element is provided, it will be wrapped into TextareaAdapter plugin (see below).
`onPreInit`       | Function             | A function that is called before the editor is initialized. Also see the plugins `onPreInit` callback.
`onPostInit`      | Function             | A function that is called after the editor was initialized. Also see the plugins `onPostInit` callback.
`onMarkupChange`  | Function             | A function that is called whenever the markup changes. Also see the plugins `onMarkupChange` callback.
`renderer`        | Object               | An object providing a `renderer(string markup) string` function (see renderers section).
`plugins`         | Array                | See plugins section.
`hotKeys`         | Object               | See hot keys section. Each hot key must have an unique key identifier in the `hotKeys` object.


## Plugins

Plugins enhance the functionality of LYME. Some plugins are shipped with LYME and may even be enabled by default.

### ScrollTo

Provides smooth scrolling when to a block block you've started to edit.

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.ScrollTo(delay)
~~~

Param               | Type                   | Required | Default Value | Description
--------------------|------------------------|----------|---------------|-------------
`delay`             | Number                 | no       | `200`         | How fast the page scrolls to the activated block.

~~~
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.ScrollTo()
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.ScrollTo(500)
~~~

* You must include the ScrollTo jQuery plugin: `<script src="lib/jquery.scroll-to.min.js"></script>`
* The plugin is enabled by default, if the `$.scrollTo()` function is available.

### TextareaAdapter

Reads the markup from a textarea and updates the value whenever the markup changes.

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.TextareaAdapter(elementId, useHTML)
~~~

Param               | Type                   | Required | Default Value | Description
--------------------|------------------------|----------|---------------|-------------
`selector`          | String or `$` Object   | yes      | -             | The `textarea` element's selector.
`useHTML`           | Boolean                | no       | `false`       | If `true`, the HTML and not the markup of the page is set as the element's value.

~~~
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.TextareaAdapter('#textarea')
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.TextareaAdapter($('#textarea'))
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.TextareaAdapter($('.something > textarea'), true)
~~~

### AjaxAdapter

Retrieves the markup from an URL by making a `GET` request and `POST`s to an URL whenever the markup changes.

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter(getURL, saveURL)
~~~

Param               | Type                   | Required | Default Value | Description
--------------------|------------------------|----------|---------------|-------------
`getURL`            | String                 | no       | -             | The URL to `GET` the markup from. Only used when a non-empty string is provided.
`saveURL`           | String                 | no       | -             | The URL to `POST` the markup to. Two `POST` params will be sent: `markup` and `html`. Only used when a non-empty string is provided.

~~~
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter('/markup', '/markup')     // Make GET and POST requests
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter('/markup', '')            // Only make GET request
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter('', '/markup')            // Only make POST request
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter('', '')                   // Be silly and do nothing
~~~

### ContentGuard

Asks the user to confirm leaving the page, when he has made changes to the markup. 

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.ContentGuard(disableOnFormSubmit, isEnabled)
~~~

Param                 | Type                   | Required | Default Value | Description
----------------------|------------------------|----------|---------------|-------------
`disableOnFormSubmit` | Boolean                | no       | `true`        | Automatically disable the guard whenever a form is submitted.
`isEnabled`           | Boolean                | no       | `true`        | Whether the guard is enabled or not.

This is the behavior used when `disableOnFormSubmit` is `true`.

~~~
var doorGuard = new $.fn.lyme.plugins.ContentGuard();
$(document).on('submit', 'form', function() {
    doorGuard.disable();
});
~~~

If you want to enable the guard after 20 seconds, you could use something along these lines:

~~~
var doorGuard = new $.fn.lyme.plugins.ContentGuard(true, false);
window.setTimeout(function() {
    doorGuard.enable();
}, 20000);
~~~

### UndoRedo

Allows to undo and redo markup changes. 

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.UndoRedo(storage)
~~~

Param     | Type   | Required | Default Value | Description
----------|--------|----------|---------------|-------------
`storage` | String | no       | `memory`      | Either `memory` or `localStorage`. The latter will persist the current state permanently.

~~~
<button value="undo">Undo</button>
<button value="redo">Redo</button>

...

var undoRedo = new $.fn.lyme.plugins.UndoRedo();
$('button[value="undo"]').on('click', undoRedo.undo);
$('button[value="redo"]').on('click', undoRedo.redo);
~~~

**Attention:** When using the `localStorage` storage, the editor will be initialized in its last state. This means, that the `text` options is "ignored".

### Writing your own plugins

You can register plugins (plain objects) with callback functions which are invoked on various events.

`onPreInit(object $editor, object options)`  
Called before the editor is initialized, and all the options had been assembled.

`onPostInit(string markup, string html)`  
Called after the editor was initialized.

`onGetMarkup() string`  
Called when LYME is initialized. The returned string will overwrite the `markup` option. 

`onMarkupChange(string markup, string html)`  
Called when the markup of a block was updated. Returns the markup and HTML of all blocks.

`onBlockChange(string markup, string html)`  
Called when the markup of a block was updated. Returns the markup and HTML of the edited block.

`onPreStartEditing($.fn.lyme.Block $block)`  
Called when a block is about to go into edit mode. 

`onPostStartEditing($.fn.lyme.Block block)`  
Called after a block went into edit mode.

## Browser Support

Tested in modern FF, Chrome and IE 9+.

Commit message:

we now provide a JS file that consists of lyme, markdown extra js and scroll to

README.md, after:

# Welcome to LYME

LYME stands for **<u>L</u>ow Ke<u>y</u> <u>M</u>arkup <u>E</u>ditor** and guess what, it's simply that. LYME aims to stay in the background and provide you with a distraction-free interface for writing text in your favorite markup language. 

## Editor

### Blocks

The given text - or markup if you will - is split into blocks. A block is delimited by two line breaks. Think of it as a paragraph. You can click any block to start editing. **Just try it and click this text.** As soon as you leave a block the `onMarkupChange` callback is invoked.

### Renderers and Markup Languages

Renderers transform markup into HTML. What markup language you use is up to you. LYME ships with the following renderers (*Markdown Extra* is the default renderer):

Markup Language  | Library Dependencies                                                                                  | Constructor
---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------
Markdown         | `lib/showdown.min.js` ([Showdown](https://github.com/coreyti/showdown))                               | `$.fn.renderers.Showdown`
Markdown Extra   | `lib/js-markdown-extra.js` ([JS Markdown Extra](https://github.com/tanakahisateru/js-markdown-extra)) | `$.fn.renderers.JSMarkdownExtra`

But don't worry, you can override the `renderer` option with an object providing a `render(string markup) string` function and plug in your own renderer.

You can also overwrite the way you want to split blocks by providing a `split(string markup) string[]` function.

~~~
$('#editor').lyme({
    renderer : {
        render: function(markup) {
            var html = ...;
            return html;
        },
        split: function(markup) {
            var blocks = ...;
            return blocks;
        }
    }
});
~~~

### Hot Keys

If you're editing a block you can use the following hot keys to navigate the editor:

Key Combination                   | Effect
----------------------------------|---------------------------
`TAB`                             | Indents code by 4 spaces.
`CTRL + ALT + DOWN ARROW`         | Moves to the next block.
`CTRL + ALT + UP ARROW`           | Moves to the previous block.
`CTRL + ALT + BACKSPACE`          | Deletes the current block.
`CTRL + ALT + RETURN`             | Adds new block below the current block.
`CTRL + ALT + SHIFT + DOWN ARROW` | Places the current block after the next block.
`CTRL + ALT + SHIFT + UP ARROW`   | Places the current block before the previous block.
`ESCAPE`                          | Leaves the current block / exits the editor.

You can provide your own hot keys if you wish. Have a look at the `$.fn.lyme.hotKeys` object and the `hotKeys` option.

Some hot keys, like `TAB`, are configurable:

~~~
$.fn.lyme.hotKeys.tabbing.indentation = "\t"; // Use TAB
$.fn.lyme.hotKeys.tabbing.indentation = '  '; // Use two spaces
~~~


## Integration

Here is some sample code that initializes a LYME editor.

~~~
<html>
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="build/lyme.css">
</head>
<body>
    <div id="editor"></div>
    <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.9.1.min.js"></script>
    <script src="/lib/js-markdown-extra.js"></script>
    <script src="/build/jquery.lyme.min.js"></script>
    <script>
        $('#editor').lyme({
            markup: "# Hi there\n\nI am text!",
            onMarkupChange: function(markup, html) {
                console.log(markup, html);
            }
        });
    </script>
</body>
</html>
~~~

LYME provides a shortcut to read and write to a textarea element. Just provide the selected element as the `text` option and LYME will automatically setup a plugin to update the element whenever the markup changes.

~~~
$('#editor').lyme({
    markup: $('#textarea')
});
~~~

The `build` directory contains a `jquery.lyme-markdown-extra.min.js` that consists of `build/jquery.lyme.min.js`, `lib/js-markdown-extra.js` and `lib/jquery.scroll-to.min.js`. Just to make it a bit easier. :)

### Options

Name              | Type                 | Description
------------------|----------------------|-------------
`markup`          | String or `$` Object | The initial markup to use. If a selected element is provided, it will be wrapped into TextareaAdapter plugin (see below).
`onPreInit`       | Function             | A function that is called before the editor is initialized. Also see the plugins `onPreInit` callback.
`onPostInit`      | Function             | A function that is called after the editor was initialized. Also see the plugins `onPostInit` callback.
`onMarkupChange`  | Function             | A function that is called whenever the markup changes. Also see the plugins `onMarkupChange` callback.
`renderer`        | Object               | An object providing a `renderer(string markup) string` function (see renderers section).
`plugins`         | Array                | See plugins section.
`hotKeys`         | Object               | See hot keys section. Each hot key must have an unique key identifier in the `hotKeys` object.


## Plugins

Plugins enhance the functionality of LYME. Some plugins are shipped with LYME and may even be enabled by default.

### ScrollTo

Provides smooth scrolling when to a block block you've started to edit.

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.ScrollTo(delay)
~~~

Param               | Type                   | Required | Default Value | Description
--------------------|------------------------|----------|---------------|-------------
`delay`             | Number                 | no       | `200`         | How fast the page scrolls to the activated block.

~~~
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.ScrollTo()
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.ScrollTo(500)
~~~

* You must include the ScrollTo jQuery plugin: `<script src="lib/jquery.scroll-to.min.js"></script>`
* The plugin is enabled by default, if the `$.scrollTo()` function is available.

### TextareaAdapter

Reads the markup from a textarea and updates the value whenever the markup changes.

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.TextareaAdapter(elementId, useHTML)
~~~

Param               | Type                   | Required | Default Value | Description
--------------------|------------------------|----------|---------------|-------------
`selector`          | String or `$` Object   | yes      | -             | The `textarea` element's selector.
`useHTML`           | Boolean                | no       | `false`       | If `true`, the HTML and not the markup of the page is set as the element's value.

~~~
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.TextareaAdapter('#textarea')
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.TextareaAdapter($('#textarea'))
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.TextareaAdapter($('.something > textarea'), true)
~~~

### AjaxAdapter

Retrieves the markup from an URL by making a `GET` request and `POST`s to an URL whenever the markup changes.

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter(getURL, saveURL)
~~~

Param               | Type                   | Required | Default Value | Description
--------------------|------------------------|----------|---------------|-------------
`getURL`            | String                 | no       | -             | The URL to `GET` the markup from. Only used when a non-empty string is provided.
`saveURL`           | String                 | no       | -             | The URL to `POST` the markup to. Two `POST` params will be sent: `markup` and `html`. Only used when a non-empty string is provided.

~~~
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter('/markup', '/markup')     // Make GET and POST requests
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter('/markup', '')            // Only make GET request
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter('', '/markup')            // Only make POST request
new $.fn.lyme.plugins.AjaxAdapter('', '')                   // Be silly and do nothing
~~~

### ContentGuard

Asks the user to confirm leaving the page, when he has made changes to the markup. 

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.ContentGuard(disableOnFormSubmit, isEnabled)
~~~

Param                 | Type                   | Required | Default Value | Description
----------------------|------------------------|----------|---------------|-------------
`disableOnFormSubmit` | Boolean                | no       | `true`        | Automatically disable the guard whenever a form is submitted.
`isEnabled`           | Boolean                | no       | `true`        | Whether the guard is enabled or not.

This is the behavior used when `disableOnFormSubmit` is `true`.

~~~
var doorGuard = new $.fn.lyme.plugins.ContentGuard();
$(document).on('submit', 'form', function() {
    doorGuard.disable();
});
~~~

If you want to enable the guard after 20 seconds, you could use something along these lines:

~~~
var doorGuard = new $.fn.lyme.plugins.ContentGuard(true, false);
window.setTimeout(function() {
    doorGuard.enable();
}, 20000);
~~~

### UndoRedo

Allows to undo and redo markup changes. 

~~~
$.fn.lyme.plugins.UndoRedo(storage)
~~~

Param     | Type   | Required | Default Value | Description
----------|--------|----------|---------------|-------------
`storage` | String | no       | `memory`      | Either `memory` or `localStorage`. The latter will persist the current state permanently.

~~~
<button value="undo">Undo</button>
<button value="redo">Redo</button>

...

var undoRedo = new $.fn.lyme.plugins.UndoRedo();
$('button[value="undo"]').on('click', undoRedo.undo);
$('button[value="redo"]').on('click', undoRedo.redo);
~~~

**Attention:** When using the `localStorage` storage, the editor will be initialized in its last state. This means, that the `text` options is "ignored".

### Writing your own plugins

You can register plugins (plain objects) with callback functions which are invoked on various events.

`onPreInit(object $editor, object options)`  
Called before the editor is initialized, and all the options had been assembled.

`onPostInit(string markup, string html)`  
Called after the editor was initialized.

`onGetMarkup() string`  
Called when LYME is initialized. The returned string will overwrite the `markup` option. 

`onMarkupChange(string markup, string html)`  
Called when the markup of a block was updated. Returns the markup and HTML of all blocks.

`onBlockChange(string markup, string html)`  
Called when the markup of a block was updated. Returns the markup and HTML of the edited block.

`onPreStartEditing($.fn.lyme.Block $block)`  
Called when a block is about to go into edit mode. 

`onPostStartEditing($.fn.lyme.Block block)`  
Called after a block went into edit mode.

## Browser Support

Tested in modern FF, Chrome and IE 9+.
